Welcome back.
So, authentication and authorization
is all about users signing up,
logging in, and accessing pages or routes,
that we grant them permission to do so.
So, it's really all about the users.
And, so we need to start by implementing the user model
in this lecture, so that in the next one,
we can then create new users in our database.
So, back in our application, let's go ahead
and create a new file for the user model.
So of course in our model folder, New File,
userModel.js.
And just like before, we start
by requiring the Mongoose package.
All right.
And now, all we need to do is to create a schema
and then create a model out of it.
So just like we did with the tours,
we're gonna do it here now with the users.
And actually, since we already did that before,
I want to leave this one as a challenge for you, all right?
So I want you to create a schema with five fields.
So, name, email,
then a photo; which is just gonna be a string,
so just like in our tours.
I also want a field for a password,
and for a passwordConfirm.
Okay?
And a bit more about that later
when I solve this challenge for you,
but for now, I really want you to practice
to create this schema on your own
and then also create a model out of that schema, okay?
And then by the end, you can also export it.
So please pause the video at this point,
and I'll be back in a second here
to solve this challenge for you.
All right.
Hope you completed that challenge.
And so I will now solve it.
And don't worry if it doesn't look exactly the same.
You can simply adapt it as we go through this video.
So, through this solution.
So, I'm gonna call this one the userSchema.
And just like before, we create a new mongoose.Schema.
And then into that, we pass our schema object,
and start defining our fields.
So, I want a name with the type, of course, of String.
And I also want it to be required.
So whenever a new user is created,
he needs to tell us his name basically.
So, let's set an error message here as well.
"Please tell us your name!"
All right?
So that's the name.
Next up, we want the email.
All right?
And so this will be used for the user to login
and we will not create a username property here, okay?
So in some applications, you will see a username being used,
but in this case, we wanna keep it simple here
and simply identify users by emails.
And so again, this is of the type String.
It is also a required field.
So just some error message again.
Next up, I want emails also to be unique, okay?
So, unique set to true.
And that's basically because this email is, of course,
the unique identifier of each user, okay?
Now by default, emails should be unique, right?
But let's just be 100% sure here
that there will be no accounts
with the same email address, all right?
Now we can also specify another schema-type option here,
which is lowercase.
So that's a new one.
And it's not a validator.
All it's gonna do, is to basically
transform the email into lowercase.
So if someone says like Jonas@Gmail or whatever,
then that's gonna be converted all to lowercase.
Okay?
And now finally, we also want to actually validate
the email address.
So basically testing if the provided email
that corresponds to the common email format, all right?
So for example again jonas@gmail.com
would be a valid email,
but for example, like this, it would not be.
Or like this.
And so for that, we need to create our own
validator basically.
Now we're not gonna create our own validator for that,
but instead we're gonna use that validator package
that I showed you before from npm, right?
So remember here in the tourModel,
I actually showed you this module here,
but then we didn't end up using it
because it wasn't really useful in our case.
But now, it's gonna be quite useful,
and so I'm going ahead and copying it here, okay,
so that we can now use it right in our schema.
So, to now create our custom validator,
we use validate, remember?
And then we pass in the function anti-error message,
just like with our other validators.
And to check if an email is valid,
all we need to do is to call the isEmail method
on the validator object, okay?
So that, again, comes from the documentation,
which I showed you before when we first used this module.
And so whenever you need a custom validator,
you can go ahead and check the documentation
and find if there's a good function for your use case.
So in this case, that's validator.Email,
and our error message is gonna be
"a valid email," okay?
And in the next video, when we're gonna create users
out of this model, we will then of course test all of this
in order to see if it works.
Next up, I also want the user to be able
to basically upload a photo.
And we're gonna store that simply in a String.
But it's not required, okay?
So a photo is usually optional in most web applications,
and so we're gonna do the same here.
So, if the user wants to upload a photo,
then that will be stored somewhere in our file system
and the path to that photo will then be stored
into this photo field, okay?
So that's similar to what we had here.
Remember, we have,
yeah, we have imageCover,
and so that also is simply the path
of the place in our file system
where the image is actually uploaded.
All right?
So that's photo.
And now we need password.
And the password should be, again, of the type String.
That's not correct.
And the password of course is required, right?
So, true.
"Provide a password."
And we're also gonna impose a very simple password rule,
which is that a password should have at least
eight characters.
So, how do we do that?
Well, that's quite easy.
All we have to do is minlength,
and set it to eight in this case.
And that's actually the only password rule
that we're gonna impose.
And many apps have all these crazy rules
like at least one number and one character and one symbol,
but we're not gonna implement any of that here
because actually it has been found
that that's not really effective, okay?
Usually the most secure passwords
are the longest ones, okay,
and not these ones with the crazy symbols and characters
and all that.
That's enough for the password for now,
but we're gonna create some more specific fields here
for the password when we start to like manage passwords
in the database, okay?
But for now, that is enough here.
And so now it's passwordConfirm.
So you know how usually when you create a new account
on some web application, you always need
to put in your password and then confirm it just to be sure
that they are the same.
And so that's what this field is for.
So of course it's also of type String.
And of course it's also required.
Okay.
And again, we're gonna create some more properties here
in the schema-type option a bit later, okay?
Specifically, validators to see if the confirm password
is actually the same than the main password, all right?
But for now, this schema is actually enough,
and so it has these fields that I asked you
to create in the challenge.
And now, actually, all we need to do is to go ahead
and create the model out of the schema.
So the User, with a capital U,
just to follow that convention that model variables
are usually always with a capital letter,
then mongoose.model, and then pass in the name of the model,
and of course, we want this one to be called User
and created out of the userSchema that we created before.
And then module.exports set to User.
And that's it.
That's our simple userSchema that's gonna allow us
to get started with actually creating users
right in the next video.
So, see you by then.